# LoggingLoader_R
LoggingLoader automatically loads data from either 1) CSV files in any given directory structure or 2) Databases.

When logging data, we can generally divide data into three kinds:
 * Metadata: Single values of data describing something about the whole dataset. (Fx. Age = 34, Gender = Male)
 * Event Data: Events happening over time during the experiment, Fx "Game Started" "Button Press". Events also typically log extra data which give context, fx "ButtonType: Shift".
 * Sample Data: Continuous data logged at a fixed time interval, fx every millisecond. Fx "PlayerPositionX: 0.1, 0.11, 0.1245, 0.14" etc.

LoggingLoader will by default assume your dataset contains 3 CSV files representing these under the names `Meta`, `Event` and `Sample`. If your dataset contains custom names, these can be provided as arguments, fx `Meta = overviewdata`. LoggingLoader always merges by matching ids found in a `SessionID` column which is automatically generated by [LoggingManager in Unity](https://github.com/med-material/LoggingManager).

## What file structure does it support?
LoggingLoader supports all directory structure and searches all subdirectories. The folder names are saved as columns into the saved dataset under the names "i0" (folder), "i1" (subfolder), "i2" (subsubfolder) etc.

## How do I use it?
First, download the LoggingLoader from Github. Open the R project from R Studio and test the code from the `preprocess.R` script. Example csv files are provided.
Assuming your data follows the naming conventions described above, the call is simply:

```
source("utils/loadrawdata.R")
D <- LoadFromDirectory("data")
```

Where `data` is the folder containing CSV files. If you wish to override the identifying names of the CSV files you can use:

```
source("utils/loadrawdata.R")
D <- LoadFromDirectory("data", Meta = "overviewdata")
```

LoggingLoader will now look for CSV files named `overviewdata` inside the folder.

## What if I only have continuous data?

LoggingLoader will soon support passing `NULL` to either Meta, Event or Sample arguments. Passing `NULL` means LoggingLoader will skip looking for the given dataset and still merge the rest as expected.
